Obesity is the single greatest predictor of the development of type 2 diabetes and has become a global pandemic with 475 million people worldwide affected and with 42% of the U.S. population expected to be obese by 2030 (1). Clinical, epidemiological, and molecular studies have converged to highlight that inflammation is a critical component of obesity-associated insulin resistance (2). Adipose tissue (AT), particularly the visceral AT of obese humans and rodents, is one of the main organs affected by this inflammatory state and is characterized by increased production and secretion of proinflammatory molecules with local and systemic effects (3-6). At a cellular level, the role of AT macrophages in the pathogenesis of metabolic diseases was evidenced by the increased expression of macrophage markers found in the AT of obese individuals (7,8). Additionally, macrophages within the obese AT display a proinflammatory Th1 polarized M1 phenotype, while, alternatively, activated Th2 polarized M2 macrophages are predominant in the AT of lean animals and humans (9,10), suggesting a switch in macrophage polarization in obese states. Additionally, evidence has pointed toward the role of other immune cells, such as T cells, in regulating the inflammatory cascades leading to increased proinflammatory M1 macrophages with a much smaller increase or even a reported decrease in anti-inflammatory M2 macrophages (11). Specific subpopulations of T cells play different roles in these processes (11,12), with CD8+T lymphocytes accumulating within the AT of obese individuals (12) and CD4+and particularly Foxp3+CD4+regulatory T cells being decreased in the fat depots of insulin resistant models of obesity (11). It is interesting to note that metabolic/nutritional signals known to deregulate the insulin pathway and promote insulin resistance in AT also stimulate the inflammatory processes. Activation of macrophages is mediated by the stimulation of Toll-like receptors (TLRs) that sense both microbial agents and nutrients. In particular, TLR4 is directly activated by free fatty acids (13) and TLR4 deficiency in mice protects against diet-induced insulin resistance (14,15). Similarly, signal transduction pathways regulating the energy homeostasis are involved in the activation of T lymphocytes. In particular, the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase/Akt pathway that stimulates the mammalian target of rapamycin has recently emerged as a regulator of T-cell proliferation and function (16). In addition, liver kinase B1 (LKB1)-deficient and AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK)-deficient mice have increased T-cell activation and alteration of cytokine expression leading to diet-induced insulin resistance (17). 