Controversy about the origin of adult beta-cells has engaged scientists for more than 100 years (1-5). Several mechanisms have been invoked to explain adult beta-cell mass expansion, including neogenesis from pancreatic ducts or hematopoietic tissues, replication of specialized beta-cell progenitors, and self-renewal by beta-cells. Studies now indicate that normal beta-cell growth in mice primarily occurs by self-renewal of mature beta-cells-not by replication of specialized progenitors (6-8). A recent study powerfully challenged prevailing consensus regarding the origins of new beta-cells and described how beta-cells are abundantly generated from endogenous progenitors in injured adult mouse pancreas (9). The authors used PDL to induce pancreatic injury, which resulted in acinar cell death and ductal proliferation. beta-Cell mass doubled within a week, with an associated 10-fold increase in beta-cell proliferation. PDL also induced neurogenin 3 (Ngn3) expression. The study has been heralded as providing convincing evidence for multipotent endocrine progenitors in adult pancreas (10-12). But subsequent studies indicate that ductal-derived progenitors do not contribute to the doubling of beta-cell mass after pancreatic injury, leaving open the question as to where the PDL-induced newly generated beta-cells come from if not ducts (2,13-16). We reexamined beta-cell neogenesis after PDL, reasoning that quantitative imaging and lineage tracing would reveal the source and amount of new beta-cells. As expected, PDL-induced injury stimulates massive acinar death and ductal proliferation. Surprisingly, beta-cell mass and insulin content is unaltered by PDL. Moreover, beta-cell proliferation is not increased by PDL. Using sequential labeling with thymidine analogs, cre-lox lineage tracing driven by the insulin promoter, or low-frequency ubiquitous cre-lox lineage tracing, we found that progenitors do not contribute to the beta-cell lineage in response to PDL. Therefore, beta-cells are not generated in PDL-injured adult mouse pancreas. Experiments were performed according to the Children's Hospital of Philadelphia Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee. Male F1 hybrid B6129SF1/J and BALB/cByJ mice were obtained from The Jackson Laboratory (Bar Harbor, ME). The Jackson Laboratory Rosa YFP mice [B6.129 * 1-Gt(Rosa)26SorNone/J] were crossed with Ins2-CreERT (6) (a gift from D. Melton, Harvard University and Howard Hughes Medical Institute, via B. Stanger, University of Pennsylvania Perelman School of Medicine) and UBC-CreERT2 mice (17) (a gift from E. Brown, University of Pennsylvania Perelman School of Medicine). 