The development of type 2 diabetes represents a complex series of events that begins with the development of insulin resistance. The changes in adipose tissue that accompany obesity, the metabolic syndrome, and insulin resistance include increased adipose tissue macrophages, circulating inflammatory markers such as tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) and interleukin (IL)-6 (1-3), and the development of a chronic inflammatory state. In addition to the infiltration of macrophages, other changes occur in the adipose tissue of obese, insulin-resistant subjects, including an increase in extracellular matrix (ECM) components, such as collagen VI, thrombospondin, and collagen V and a decrease in elastin (4-7). Along with adipocyte expansion, changes in the adipose vasculature have been described, including a decrease in capillaries and an increase in larger blood vessels (7,8), leading to the hypothesis that adipocyte necrosis and inflammation develop as a result of adipocyte expansion into a relatively hypoxic, nonelastic ECM (9). Fish oils (FOs) are rich sources of omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids (omega-3 PUFAs), and there is a large amount of literature on the potential benefits of FOs on lowering serum triglycerides, cardiovascular protection, and immune modulation. There is considerable evidence supporting the anti-inflammatory effects of omega-3 PUFAs (10), and FOs may be an adjunct in the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis, inflammatory bowel disease, and asthma (11,12). Although the mechanism of this effect is complex, part of the anti-inflammatory action involves an inhibition of the production of eicosanoids from arachadonic acid (13). In addition, a number of studies have demonstrated that FOs have a peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPARgamma)-like effect (14). PPARgamma agonist drugs, such as the thiazolidinediones, improve insulin sensitivity and have anti-inflammatory properties. Previous studies have demonstrated thiazolidinedione-mediated reductions in plasma inflammatory markers and adipose tissue macrophages and an increase in blood adiponectin (15-18). Although the effects of FOs on adipose inflammation are unknown, previous studies have generally not found that FOs improve insulin sensitivity in humans (19). 