beta-Cell replacement therapy is a major goal of diabetes research. Insulin-positive cells have been successfully derived from stem cells (1-4), but these cells have not been responsive to glucose in vitro and must be considered functionally immature. Fetal and neonatal rodent beta cells also lack glucose responsiveness (5) and therefore provide a good model to study the acquisition of glucose responsiveness and beta-cell maturation. Neonatal beta cells are characterized by low expression of many key genes of the specialized beta-cell phenotype (6). We previously showed that in neonatal islets,Mafais expressed at ?10% of the adult level and that its adenoviral-mediated reconstitution to adult levels in P2 islets induced secretion of glucose-responsive insulin (7). But what regulatesMafain vivo? To identify physiological regulators, we considered the changes that normally occur in the physiological milieu during the neonatal period (8). During the second postnatal week, serum thyroxine (T4) (9) and corticosterone (10) surge and prolactin levels rise by postnatal day 20 (11). We hypothesized that thyroid hormone (TH) could physiologically regulateMafa, enhancing its expression and driving the maturation of the insulin secretory response to glucose in neonatal beta cells. TH serum levels start increasing in parallel withMafaexpression increases, and TH is important in the postnatal development of the central nervous system and the digestive track (8). Inhibition of TH synthesis prevents or delays maturation of these systems, and TH administration results in precocious development. Triiodothyronine (T3) has been shown to enhance the differentiation of a human pancreatic duct cell line toward a beta-cell phenotype (12). Moreover, thyrotoxicosis leads to hyperinsulinemia with increased hepatic glucose production and insulin resistance (13); hypothyroidism reduces production of hepatic glucose and insulin resistance (14). The effects of TH are mediated by TH receptors (THRs), which are members of the nuclear receptor superfamily. Three major isoforms-THRA1, THRB1, and THRB2-exhibit similar ligand-dependent regulation of gene activity, whereas a fourth isoform, THRA2, lacks the ligand-binding and transactivation domains (15). 