Islet transplantation has opened up the possibility to treat diabetic patients with cell replacement strategies (1-3). Because the demand for pancreatic islet cells far outstrips the supply, concerted efforts have been undertaken to generate a renewable and reliable supply of insulin-producing cells from human embryonic stem cells (hESCs) and induced pluripotent stem cells. Recently, strategies have been devised that aim to recapitulate the stepwise succession of signals that guide the development of pancreatic endocrine and beta-cells during embryogenesis. Recapitulation of these embryonic signals in cell culture has led to the production of intermediate pancreatic lineage as well as immature, nonfunctional insulin-producing cells from hESCs and induced pluripotent stem cells in vitro (4-9). More importantly, when transplanted in vivo, pancreatic progenitor cells generated from hESCs gave rise to mature beta-cells capable of reverting diabetic phenotypes caused by chemically induced depletion of endogenous beta-cells in mice (10). Although these proof-of-principle experiments clearly demonstrated that pancreatic cells generated in vitro were capable of carrying physiological functions in vivo, they also illustrated that critical signals promoting the full differentiation of pancreas endocrine progenitors and mature endocrine cells were missing from the current in vitro conditions. The pancreas arises from the definitive endoderm, one of the three primary germ layers generated through gastrulation during early embryogenesis (11). Multiple organs, including the notochord and the dorsal aorta, secrete signaling molecules that control the specification of the duodenal part of the posterior foregut from which the pancreatic bud emerges (12-15). At approximately embryonic day 9.5 (E9.5), a layer of mesenchyme condenses around the budding pancreatic epithelium and separates it from the adjacent notochord and dorsal aorta (16,17). Studies initiated by Golosow and Grobstein (18) in the 1960s posed that the pancreatic mesenchyme provides factors necessary for the survival and cytodifferentiation of the developing pancreatic epithelium. Because clean separation of the mesenchyme from the branching pancreas epithelium is difficult at later stages, a full account of all mesenchymal factors expressed throughout pancreas development and how they function individually or in combination is currently missing. Here, we provide evidence that embryonic pancreas mesenchyme provides temporally distinct signals that promote specific stages of hESC differentiation toward pancreatic progenitors and insulin-producing cells. Microarray analysis of RNAs collected from E11.5 mouse pancreatic mesenchyme and epithelium allowed us to select 11 genes encoding for secreted factors that are preferentially expressed at higher levels in the mesenchyme compared with the pancreatic epithelium. Applying these candidate factors individually and combined with an established in vitro hESC differentiation system revealed that they greatly improved the generation of pancreatic progenitors. In contrast, sustained treatment with these factors beyond the progenitor stage blocked further differentiation into endocrine progenitor and insulin-producing cells. 