The conventional treatment of type 1 diabetes (T1D), consisting of the injection of insulin several times a day, alters the quality of life and prevents only imperfectly severe hypoglycemia and vascular complications. It is thus essential to develop alternative treatments. Transplantation of adult pancreatic islets is a simple procedure requiring minor surgery (islets are injected intravenously) that raised clinicians and patients' expectations (1). However, it is rarely considered in the clinic because of the paucity of donors (three cadaveric donors are often required per recipient) and the requirement for long-term immunosuppressive treatments, which have major side effects. In addition, insulin independence is only transient since the transplants do not produce enough insulin after a few years (1). This could be due to either transplant rejection or the lack of embedded stem cells in adult islets, which may be required for long-term renewal of beta-cells. The use of fetal pancreases (FPs) as an alternative source of beta-cells may provide a solution to these issues. Transplantation of FPs to replace the function of destroyed beta-cells in T1D has been envisioned for decades. Compared with adult pancreatic islets, fetal tissue appears to present several advantages:1) after transplantation, FPs continue their development, which is characterized by high proliferative capacity and differentiation into large numbers of mature insulin-producing pancreatic islets. Additionally, the presence of islet precursor cells in the ducts and possibly in immature islets may promote the long-term differentiation of insulin-producing cells (2-4). 2) Various sources of FPs may be available for transplantation, even though some of them may raise ethical or technological issues at the moment. Human FPs could be obtained from fetuses after voluntary terminations of pregnancy, similar to human fetal cells that have already been used in clinical trials for the treatment of Parkinson or Huntington diseases (5). Xenotransplantation of pig FP could be another interesting option since pig insulin is perfectly functional in humans. 