Elevated basal glucagon levels and reduced hypoglycemia-induced glucagon secretion are underappreciated and poorly understood aspects of type 1 and type 2 diabetes (1-3). Although high plasma glucose normally inhibits glucagon secretion, it remains unclear whether this in vivo response is mediated by glucose sensing, neuronal modulation, paracrine/endocrine control, or a combination thereof (4-10). Uncoupling protein 2 (UCP2), an inner mitochondrial membrane protein, is expressed in pancreatic alpha-cells (11), and its expression can be induced in adipose tissue by a ketogenic diet (12), suggesting a role in the fasting response. While the precise physiological function of UCP2 in islet cells is still debated, it can mildly dissipate the proton motive force generated during mitochondrial electron transport and limit ATP synthesis under certain conditions (13-15). Additionally, UCP2 can limit mitochondrial reactive oxygen species (ROS) production, which can alter associated signaling pathways and/or protect against oxidative stress (16-18). In beta-cells, UCP2 deletion elicits only small changes in mitochondrial membrane potential (DeltaPsim) with limited effect on ATP (18,19) but rather increases ROS production, which amplifies insulin secretion (18,20). alpha-Cells, like beta-cells, have glucose-sensing machinery that center on KATPchannel activity, cellular depolarization, and calcium influx, triggering exocytosis; however, unlike beta-cells, they are electrically active and secretory at low glucose concentrations (5,21-24). UCP2 in alpha-cells could therefore be an important regulator of glucagon secretion via regulation of ATP production, plasma membrane potential, and ROS levels. Previously, we showed that islets from mice globally lacking UCP2 (UCP2-/-) displayed higher basal glucagon secretion and impaired low glucose-mediated glucagon secretion (11). Due to UCP2's wide expression profile in glucose-sensitive tissues, these changes in alpha-cell function in UCP2-/-mice could be the result of beta-cell and/or extra-pancreatic deletion. To decipher the role of UCP2 in alpha-cells and in the response to fasting, we created an alpha-cell-specific UCP2 knockout (UCP2AKO) deletion mouse model. These mice displayed reduced fasting plasma glucagon levels and impaired glucagon secretion, due in part to elevated ROS, enhanced glucose-induced hyperpolarization of the DeltaPsim, and depolarization of plasma membrane potential. Therefore, we conclude that alpha-cell UCP2 plays a key role in the hypoglycemic response. LoxUCP2 mice on a 129/SV background (25) (Fig. 1None) were crossed for at least four generations to rat glucagon promoter-driven Cre recombinase (Gcg-cre) mice maintained on a C57BL/6 background (26). 