Type 2 diabetes is caused by abnormalities of insulin action and beta-cell failure (1). Originally identified as a defect of insulin-dependent glucose disposal in skeletal muscle, insulin resistance has gradually morphed into a complex syndrome, under which aspects of impaired lipid metabolism and energy balance and endothelial dysfunction are subsumed (1). Hyperinsulinemia is the earliest abnormality in the clinical course of insulin resistance and arises as a result of increased secretion and decreased clearance of insulin (2). Insulin is cleared through its own receptor (3). As insulin levels rise to compensate for insulin resistance of target tissues, so does insulin-mediated receptor internalization, followed by receptor degradation (4). As a result, fewer receptors are available at the cell surface to mediate insulin action (5,6). Thus, hyperinsulinemia also begets insulin resistance (7). The phenomenon of insulin-dependent receptor internalization is best documented in liver: insulin concentrations in the portal vein are about fourfold higher than in the hepatic vein owing to receptor-mediated clearance (8). Accordingly, an early consequence of insulin resistance is a reduced number of hepatic insulin receptors (InsRs) (9); conversely, ablating the latter impairs insulin clearance and is sufficient to bring about hyperinsulinemia (10). Less clear is whether receptor downregulation is sufficient to affect insulin action. In fact, the ability of insulin to engender a biological response, such as glucose uptake in adipocytes or inhibition of glucose production in liver, levels off at hormone concentrations that are associated with minimal receptor occupancy ( less than 10%) (5,6,11). Herein lies a pathophysiological conundrum that has never been satisfactorily addressed even as it might hold the key to unraveling this critical clinical problem. In considering the systemic effects of hyperinsulinemia, one has to be mindful that the cell type most likely to bear the brunt of this pathophysiologic abnormality is the vascular endothelial cell (EC). The literature is rife with reports of abnormal endothelial function secondary to insulin resistance in vascular endothelium (12-15). And tracer studies have documented in detail that insulin diffusion across the endothelial barrier is a factor in determining insulin sensitivity (16,17). 