In recent years, interest in testosterone (T) has been increasing due to the accumulating evidence associating low T levels in men with augmented endocrine and cardiovascular morbidity and mortality (1-3). Fundamentally, T is regarded as an anabolic and lipolytic hormone, and in hypogonadal patients, T therapy increases fat-free mass and muscle mass (4) and decreases fat mass (FM) (5). Despite favorable body composition changes, the effects of T on lipid metabolism, including levels of lipids and triglycerides (TGs), are contradictory (6-11) and, unfortunately, much of what is known has been inferred by examining results derived from rodent studies or studies comparing men and women. Hypogonadal men are prone to develop a metabolic profile characterized by insulin resistance and hypertriglyceridemia (2,12). Although diabetic patients have greater VLDL-TG secretion and preserved suppression after acute insulin exposure (13), very little data demonstrate T's direct effects on VLDL-TG kinetics. Recently, however, overweight hypogonadal patients were shown to store more meal-derived free fatty acids (FFAs) in fat depots and have lower 6-h postabsorptive fat oxidation than BMI-matched controls (14). This underscores the importance of considering both fasting and postabsorptive conditions when investigating T effects on whole-body lipid turnover. Compared with women, men have greater fasting plasma concentrations of total TG (15) and VLDL-TG (16), whereas similar (17) or lower VLDL-TG secretion and clearance rates (18,19) have been reported. If T was an important determining factor for such sex differences, it would imply a greater secretion and clearance of VLDL-TG particles in the hypogonadal state, whereas T substitution would have the opposite effect. This hypothesis is supported by rodent studies, in which androgen receptor knockout mice show increased hepatic lipogenesis and decreased lipid oxidation (20), and castrated male rats show increased TG uptake in intra-abdominal fat depots (21). 