The relative or absolute lack of insulin is responsible for diabetes. In type 1 diabetes, beta-cell loss is due in most cases to an autoimmune reaction, but not exclusively (1). In type 2 diabetes (T2D), increased peripheral insulin resistance challenges the functional beta-cell mass; after an initial attempt at overriding the increased insulin demand, the number of cells that produce insulin declines progressively. Glucose entry into cells is regulated by insulin, whose secretion from beta-cells is tightly coordinated by different secretagogues. Insulin secretion is initiated by the cholinergic parasympathetic stimulation of beta-cells (the so-called "cephalic phase") and subsequently potentiated during the enteric "absorptive phase" (2). In response to mechanical and chemical stimulation along the digestive tract, the intestinal incretin hormones glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) and gastric inhibitory peptide (GIP) potentiate insulin secretion directly and indirectly, through neuronal stimulation (the "incretin effect") (3-5). Progressively, nutrient absorption and increased blood glucose stimulate insulin secretion directly (post-absorptive phase) (6). Altogether, different secretagogues act synergistically and trigger the adequate biphasic release of insulin from beta-cells, primed by cholinergic stimulation (7). These secretagogues reach islet endocrine cells through the vascular and neural networks. Pancreas innervation consists of parasympathetic (vagus nerve) and sympathetic efferent fibers and afferent sensory fibers (splanchnic nerve), and of intrapancreatic parasympathetic ganglion cells. The vagal input stimulates the secretion of insulin and other islet hormones, such as pancreatic polypeptide (PP) via cholinergic (i.e., mediated by acetylcholine) and noncholinergic mechanisms (8-10). Sympathetic postganglionic terminal nerves release noradrenaline or other peptides on endocrine cells; this represses insulin and somatostatin secretion while promoting glucagon release (11). The afferent sensory fibers innervate the periphery of islets and release calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP), among other peptides (12,13). 